hey how's it going Dave 2d here and
these are surface laptops this is a four
gig model and then this is an 8 gig
model I've done a couple videos about
these guys already so this will just be
kind of like a mini review but I want to
spend some time talking about the
viability of the 4 gig model so in case
you don't know surface laptop has
amazing build quality this is the new
leader in build quality for 13-inch
Windows laptops it's better than the XPS
13 better than the Razer Blade stealth
better than the HP Spectre and better
than the lenovo x1 I mean those are all
really well-made but these are a step up
it's not so much that the materials are
better they're still aluminum it's one
of the fact that they're just really
precisely machined and like everything
about it is so finely tuned the hand
feels is bang-on but you are paying a
premium for it it's an expensive device
and I think a big part of that cost goes
to the fact that they're as well-built
as they are the screens are really good
it's not my favorite screen and there's
too much wobble to use it regularly for
pen input but visually it's really nice
and it gets bright the webcam and mic
are pretty good this is what it looks
like and this is what it sounds like the
SSD speeds are slower than I was hoping
so the drives in here get faster as the
capacity increases but it's 128 and 256
gig models they're not very impressive
the speakers are pretty good they're
hidden underneath the keyboard but they
projects upwards so positioning is nice
they sound good not amazing
certainly not as good as a MacBook Pro
or the HP Spectre line but they're
better than the XS 13 and the razor
blade stuff the keyboards are really
nice to type on so the Alcantara fabric
is I mean it's soft its inviting it's
comfortable to use and we still don't
know about its long-term durability but
it's a very nice keyboard to type on and
I think most people will get used to it
really quickly same thing goes for the
trackpad good size great texture but if
I was looking for something to complain
about I would say that the click is a
little loud but in general the inputs on
this thing are great now battery life
was one of the headlining features of
this laptop and it's excellent it's a 45
watt hour battery which isn't actually
that large for a laptop of this size
ultrabooks sometimes have 60 watt hour
batteries there's one smaller but I can
comfortably get eight hours on this
thing doing normal tasks with the screen
at around 250 nits thermal performance
is good it runs quietly and the fans
don't come on often even if you're
watching videos but when they do it's
they need to expect for a device like
this all right so the thing I want to
focus on in this video is the
performance of the base model and for
students this thing's $900 for regular
people it's a thousand and all the great
hardware stuff that I've mentioned
previously exists on the base model but
the thing is this thing has four gigs of
RAM
this has eight gigs of ram and this is
significantly more expensive so it's
kind of like a tough decision for people
to choose between the two when the main
thing that they're concerned about is
the difference in RAM now just to get
this out of the way gaming performance
on the base model isn't great it's an HD
620 really light games or in this case
with overwatch really low settings will
let you get passable frame rates but
don't get a base or a mid tier surface
laptop to play games in regards to
regular performance I did the free
upgrade to Windows 10 Pro right away I
mean I think for 99% of you guys you
won't want to stay with Windows 10 s and
performance on the 4 gig machine is
actually not bad I can comfortably have
4 or 5 chrome tabs open with Netflix
streaming Microsoft Word and Excel open
it's still manageable if you use
software at school like MATLAB or
something not crazy intensive it's the
same thing memory gets tight but for the
most part the user experienced stays
fluid now if you use any kind of imaging
software or if you're doing even
moderate content creation you're going
to be more RAM but if your work flow is
more productivity focused you'll be fine
with 4 gigs even if you're a software
developer unless you're working with
like 3d graphics or like a really heavy
IDE
you'll be ok with 4 and the core i5 will
give you pretty decent compiling times
so to answer the big question yes I do
think that 4 gigs of ram is enough for
some people especially productivity and
media consumption is your jam but it
kills me that Microsoft couldn't just
had 8 gigs of RAM to this because in
order to get 8 gigs of ram right now you
have to buy the more premium version
with more storage and not everyone needs
that storage so yeah that's kind of a
bummer whether or not it's worth it on
the whole like the surface laptop I mean
you're getting a really nice-looking
laptop with great build quality if
that's what you're looking for this is a
good option ok hope you guys enjoyed
this video thumbs if you liked it
something you loved it see you guys next
time
[Music]